Added documentation for build_meta (#2051)
pypa/setuptools: docs/build_meta.txt

> =======================================
> Documentation to setuptools.build_meta
> =======================================

Reviewer: PEP 517 is about build systems. I would call this Build System Support.
```suggestion
=======================================
Build System Support
=======================================
```

What is it?
-------------

Python packaging has come `a long way <https://www.bernat.tech/pep-517-518/>`_.

> The traditional ``setuptools``'s way of packgaging Python modules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The traditional ``setuptools`` way of packgaging Python modules
```

uses a ``setup()`` function within the ``setup.py`` script. Commands such as
``python setup.py bdist`` or ``python setup.py bdist_wheel`` generate a 
distribution bundle and ``python setup.py install`` installs the distribution. 
This interface makes it difficult to choose other packaging tools without an 

> overhaul. Additionally, the ``setup.py`` scripts hasn't been the most user
> friendly tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
overhaul. Because ``setup.py`` scripts allowed for arbitrary execution, it
proved difficult to provide a reliable user experience across environments
and history.
```

> PEP517 therefore came to rescue and specified a new standard to 
> package and distribute Python modules. Under PEP517:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`PEP 517 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0517/>`_ therefore came to
rescue and specified a new standard to 
package and distribute Python modules. Under PEP 517:
```

Reviewer 2: I think it is possible to reference the PEP as ``:pep:`517` ``.

    a ``pyproject.toml`` file is used to specify what program to use
    for generating distribution. 

    Then, two functions provided by the program, ``build_wheel(directory: str)`` 
    and ``build_sdist(directory: str)`` create the distribution bundle at the 
    specified ``directory``. The program is free to use its own configuration 
    script or extend the ``.toml`` file. 

    Lastly, ``pip install *.whl`` or ``pip install *.tar.gz`` does the actual
    installation. If ``*.whl`` is available, ``pip`` will go ahead and copy
    the files into ``site-packages`` directory. If not, ``pip`` will look at
    ``pyproject.toml`` and decide what program to use to 'build from source' 
    (the default is ``setuptools``)

With this standard, switching between packaging tools becomes a lot easier and
in the case of ``setuptools``, ``setup.py`` becomes optional.

> ``build_meta`` is ``setuptools``'s implementation of PEP517. It provides the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``build_meta`` is ``setuptools``'s implementation of PEP 517. It provides the 
```

> two functions, ``build_wheel`` and ``build_sdist``, amongst others and uses 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
two functions, ``build_wheel`` and ``build_sdist`` amongst others, and uses 
```

> a ``setup.cfg`` to specify the information about the package. 

Reviewer: The statement "`build_meta` uses a `setup.cfg` to specify information about the package" is not precisely correct. `build_meta` does not stipulate anything about the details of configuring a setuptools package, just provides a PEP-517-compatible hook for building a setuptools package. `setup.cfg` is just one mechanism for configuring a setuptools package.

> With this standard, switching between packaging tools becomes a lot easier and
> in the case of ``setuptools``, ``setup.py`` becomes optional.
> 
> ``build_meta`` is ``setuptools``'s implementation of PEP 517. It provides the 
> two functions, ``build_wheel`` and ``build_sdist`` amongst others, and uses 
> a ``setup.cfg`` to specify the information about the package. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this standard, switching between packaging tools becomes a lot easier. ``build_meta``
implements ``setuptools``' build system support.
```

--------------

Starting with a package that you want to distribute. You will need your source
scripts, a ``pyproject.toml`` file and a ``setup.cfg`` file::

    ~/meowpkg/
        pyproject.toml
        setup.cfg
        meowpkg/__init__.py

The pyproject.toml file is required to specify the build system (i.e. what is 
being used to package your scripts and install from source). To use it with 
setuptools, the content would be::

    [build-system]
    requires = ["setuptools", "wheel"]
    build-backend = "setuptools.build_meta" 

> ``setup.cfg`` is used to specify your package information, specified 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use ``setup.cfg`` to specify your package information, specified 
```

> Use ``setup.cfg`` to specify your package information, specified 
> `here <https://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/setuptools.html#configuring
> -setup-using-setup-cfg-files>`_ ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use ``setuptools``' `declarative config`_ to specify the package information::
```

    name = meowpkg
    version = 0.0.1
    description = a package that meows
    
    [options]
    packages = find:

> Now it's time to actually generate the distribution. PEP517 specifies two

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now generate the distribution. PEP 517 specifies two
```

> Now it's time to actually generate the distribution. PEP517 specifies two
> mandatory functions, ``build_wheel`` and ``build_sdist``, implemented in
> this module. Currently, it has to be done in the interpreter::
> 
>     >>> import setuptools.build_meta
>     >>> setuptools.build_meta.build_wheel('wheel_dist')
>     'meowpkg-0.0.1-py3-none-any.whl'
>     >>> setuptools.build_meta.build_sdist('sdist')
>     'meowpkg-0.0.1.tar.gz'

Reviewer: I would not recommend this approach. Instead, I'd recommend using a PEP 517 build tool.

```suggestion
Now generate the distribution. Although the PyPA is still working to
`provide a recommended tool <https://github.com/pypa/packaging-problems/issues/219>`_
to build packages, the `pep517 package <https://pypi.org/project/pep517`_
provides this functionality. To build the package::

    $ pip install -q pep517
    $ mkdir dist
    $ python -m pep517.build .
```

And now it's done! The ``.whl`` file  and ``.tar.gz`` can then be distributed 
and installed::

>     ~/newcomputer/
>         meowpkg-0.0.1.whl
>         meowpkg-0.0.1.tar.gz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    dist/
        meowpkg-0.0.1.whl
        meowpkg-0.0.1.tar.gz
```

>     $ pip install meowpkg-0.0.1.whl
> 
> or::
> 
>     $ pip install meowpkg-0.0.1.tar.gz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $ pip install dist/meowpkg-0.0.1.whl

or::

    $ pip install dist/meowpkg-0.0.1.tar.gz
```
